README.md, before:

# Library Manager (GORM + Gen)

A minimal scaffold for a **Library Manager** project built with Go, [GORM](https://gorm.io) and [gorm.io/gen](https://gorm.io/gen) to test type-safe SQL queries using GORM.

## Requirements

- Go 1.22+
- PostgreSQL

## Getting started

```bash
git clone https://github.com/danielmesquitta/library-manager.git
cd library-manager

# Copy environment and configure DB credentials
cp .env.example .env

# Install dependencies
go mod tidy
```

### 1. Run migrations

```bash
go run ./cmd/migrate
```

### 2. Generate type‑safe query code

```bash
go run ./cmd/gen
```

Generated code will appear in the `query` directory.

### 3. Start development server

```bash
go run ./cmd/server
```

Visit <http://localhost:8080/health> to verify.

## Project layout

```
.
├── cmd               # Entrypoints (run, migrate, gen)
├── internal
│   ├── database      # DB connection helper
│   └── model         # GORM models
│   └── query         # Generated by gorm.io/gen (DO NOT EDIT)
├── go.mod
└── README.md
```

Commit message:

feat: add Makefile for script automation and update README for clarity

README.md, after:

# Library Manager (GORM + Gen)

A minimal scaffold for a **Library Manager** project built with Go, [GORM](https://gorm.io) and [gorm.io/gen](https://gorm.io/gen) to showcase type-safe SQL queries using GORM.

## Requirements

- Go 1.22+
- PostgreSQL

## Getting started

```bash
git clone https://github.com/danielmesquitta/library-manager.git
cd library-manager

# Copy environment and configure DB credentials
cp .env.example .env

# Install dependencies
make install
```

Make sure to set the `DATABASE_URL` in the `.env` file to point to your PostgreSQL database.

### 1. Run migrations

```bash
make migrate
```

### 2. Generate type‑safe query code

```bash
make generate
```

Generated code will appear in the `query` directory.

### 3. Run the application

```bash
make run
```

## Project layout

```
.
├── cmd               # Entrypoints (run, migrate, gen)
├── internal
│   ├── database      # DB connection helper
│   └── model         # GORM models
│   └── query         # Generated by gorm.io/gen (DO NOT EDIT)
├── go.mod
├── Makefile
└── README.md
```
